---
title: 	所長挨拶
---

<h2 class="h03">Pursuing our core mission for continued growth</h2>

<figure>
<img
    style="height: 300px"
    src="https://www.hi.u-tokyo.ac.jp/about_hi/images/mes_img01.jpg"
    alt="Director Toru Hoya"
/>
<figcaption>Director Toru Hoya</figcaption>
</figure>

<br />

<p>
The Historiographical Institute of the University of Tokyo is a research
institution for the study of historical documents that span Japan’s
pre-modern history from ancient times through to the Meiji Restoration
of 1868. We survey, collect and analyze various historical documents
from holdings both in Japan and overseas and compile and disseminate
these as key historical documents of Japanese history.
</p>
<p>
Our institute has a long history, and its origins stretch back to the
Institute for Japanese Studies (Wagaku Kōdansho) in the Edo period. The
Meiji Government took over the operation of this institute in the second
year of the Meiji Era (1869) and embarked on historiographical
undertakings. Counting from this time gives our institute a history of
approximately 150 years. Our forerunner was under the jurisdiction of
the Imperial University, which instituted the current style of compiling
and studying Japanese historical materials. Since the end of World War
II, we have been a research institute attached to the University of
Tokyo. Since 1901 we have published a total of more than 1,100 volumes,
including the collections of Japanese historical materials and archives
Dai Nihon Shiryō and Dai Nihon Komonjo.
</p>
<p>
The scope of surveys by the Historiographical Institute takes in both
Japan and overseas. Surveys of materials relating to Japanese history
outside Japan began before World War II and these have been conducted
with international support since the war, in particular that of the
Japan Academy. In 1997, we established the Center for the Study of
Visual Sources to complement an increasing academic interest in visual
images such as illustrations, maps, and old photographs. Last year the
center celebrated the 20th anniversary of its establishment. In
addition, we have since the 1980s worked to introduce computerization.
Along with creating and disseminating all kinds of databases, we have
made available our holdings of historical images on the web. The
International Center for the Digitization of Premodern Japanese Sources
was established in 2006. It aims to discover new sources of Japanese
historical materials both in Japan and abroad and convert these into
research resources, thus spurring the advancement of historical
information science.
</p>
<p>
Collection by means of reproduction is fundamental to the collection of
historical materials by the Historiographical Institute. To date we have
accumulated a vast repository of reproductions using methods such as
tracing, copying and photography. With the digitalization of photography
of recent years, we have established a new framework for visits to
collect historical materials based on digital photography. We share vast
amounts of our digital archive of historical images (Hi-CAT Plus), which
have been collected and accumulated to date, from our library reading
room on the web. At the same time, we have archived holdings of many
historical source materials at our institute over our long history. We
are endeavoring to roll out the dissemination of historical images from
our 200,000 precious historical source materials on our website along
with taking the necessary measures for their conservation, particularly
a national treasure, the Shimazu-ke Monjo (Documents of the Shimazu
Family).
</p>
<p>
In this way, along with galvanizing the foundation for the research of
premodern Japanese historical materials through the compilation and
publication of key historical volumes of Japanese history, our institute
have made extensive efforts to provide and disseminate information on
historical materials and the outcomes we have built up through this
throughout academia and to the general public. Researchers from our
institute are engaged in diverse undertakings such as joint research on
an individual and project basis. In addition, they participate in the
educational planning at faculties and graduate schools of universities
and contribute to the development of Japanese historical materials
researchers who can hold their own on the international stage through
hosting of post doctoral fellows, and novice and overseas researchers.
There are increasing opportunities for our staff in the conservation
laboratory to participate in joint research projects using their
specialist knowledge. In this way they are bolstering the research
systems to integrate conservation laboratory with libraries and
administrative offices.
</p>
<p>
Since 2009 we have been certified as the “base of research operations
for converting Japanese historical materials into research resources.”
We have moved to enhance our collaborative surveys and research
activities for holdings of Japanese historical materials both in Japan
and overseas and have benefitted from the participation of many museums
and regional authorities throughout Japan. As a result, we have made
these into research resources for joint use. Surveys and research of our
institute have expanded over a broad international scope, and we have
deepened our research exchanges and ties with diverse countries,
including not only those in Europe, the United States, and Russia but
also China and Korea. In recent years we have led the way in the
international field of historiographical research as the secretariat
organization for the East Asian Association of the Organizations for
Historical Materials Research and Documents Compilation.
</p>
<p>
Along with methodically and systematically collecting and stockpiling
Japanese historical materials from both Japan and overseas over a long
time scale, the Historiographical Institute of the University of Tokyo
has aimed for early adoption of the latest historical information
systems and digital technologies and their use in research undertakings.
We are an institute of Japanese history at the forefront of
historiographical research using ever-evolving traditions and the latest
techniques. We request your renewed understanding and support for all
such efforts.
</p>